In terms of globalization, producing companies are facing a high international competition. Therefore, many companies have to enable their production systems and their employees for mass customization. Especially in manual assembly, rising product variance and complexity can lead to a lower overall equipment effectiveness (OEE) and higher error rates. In order to master rising product variance and complexity, digital assistance systems can support the production manager and the assembly worker by providing, transmitting and receiving product information ongoing and in real-time. This paper presents a process model for selecting digital assistance systems and developing an agile work organization in the learning factory for cyber-physical production systems (LVP). Based on an assembly scenario of remote-controlled cars, participants are supported by a digital dashboard, which visualizes their net production time, open capacity and level of synchronization in real time. First observations in the LVP show that participants are able to analyze their current value stream, detect the bottleneck assembly station and optimize their value stream by shifting participants to assembly stations with a higher net-production time or shifting assembly tasks to other assembly stations with a lower net-production time independently.\
Producing companies are facing future trends as more unpredictable and rising volatile markets, global competitors and an increasing number of individual products by declining quantities [1]. To handle these challenges and ensure the manufacturing costs, quality and delivery time, cyber-physical production systems (CPPS) and mobile devices, which are connected via the Internet of Things (IoT), are main technologies for the fourth industrial revolution [2]. CPPS enable physical systems to detect their status and send it to other systems for a more transparent and efficient human and/or machine decision making process [3]. Especially in the manual assembly, which is often the last step of a conventional manufacturing process, qualified employees are necessary to select and use CPPS and create competitive advantages [4]. To face these challenges and use CPPS in the production area, employees need the competency to work with these new CPPS technologies and have to accept them [2].\
Especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) are often unprepared for training their employees for digital competences, qualification and knowledge [5]. In everyday language, competences, qualification and knowledge are very often used synonymously [6]. Looking at the literature, competency summarizes qualification and knowledge and is based on rules, values and personal norms [6]. These rules, values and norms influence human actions when they have been internalized [6]. Qualification is an essential prerequisite for competencies [7], it can be taught, afterwards tested and verified by certification procedures and is independent of process [6]. Knowledge in the narrow sense is a foundational element of the competences and not clearly defined in literature [6]. As shown in Figure 1, learning factories offer the potential for competency development [6] in cognitive (e.g. remember, analyze and evaluate), affective (e.g. receiving, responding) and psychomotor areas (e.g. observing, practicing) and can be combined with modern technologies such as the IoT, CPS and CPPS.\
To close the gap on digital competences in south of Germany, the learning factory for cyber-physical production systems (LVP) came into operation in Augsburg in 2017 [8]. In the LVP, the participants can experience the difference between paper-based and paper-less assembly of remote-controlled cars through an interactive assembly game. In this game a variance of four different remote-controlled cars are produced at five different manual assembly stations. These five manual assembly stations are standing in one hall, are flexible and include different assembly tasks. At the beginning of the interactive assembly game, the first manual assembly station is responsible for the chassis components such as bumper bars and suspensions. The second one consists of the motor cooler components and engine gear. The third one is responsible for brakes and tyre. The fourth manual assembly station adds the electronics components such as control unit, different kind of batteries and underbody lights. The fifth manual assembly station is responsible for the car body such as the mount, colour and the antenna. This paper-less assembly scenario consists of digital assistance systems such as worker information systems and a digital dashboard via Power BI. The digital dashboard visualizes the value stream of all assembly stations in real time on a wide screen and is in the middle of the hall.
Well-known digital assistance systems in the production area are displays, augmented reality glasses, handsetscanners and pick-by-light systems [9]. Digital assistance systems consist of components using technologies andenabling capabilities [9]. Components are physical objects such as touchscreens, microphones, RFID-Reader,loudspeaker and computers [9]. Technologies are information output (e.g. via display), information input (e.g. onscreenkeyboard), data transmission (e.g. in real time), data memory and data handling [9]. The combination of thecomponents and technologies enable the digital assistance systems for capabilities such as visualizing pictures,videos, animation, written texts, navigation and language statements. Therefore, digital assistance systems cansupport the production managers and the workers by matching their abilities and needs to their work requirementsand can provide information for improvements.
For empowering the LVP for digital assistance systems, the following process model, as shown in Figure 2, wasdeveloped and executed by the researchers from the Fraunhofer Institution of Casting, Composite and ProcessingTechnology IGCV. At first, an analysis of the current states of core technologies by the ‘Fraunhofer Industrie 4.0layer model’ was executed and evaluated. Second, intelligence objects, such as assembly stations and product boxes,were selected and connected with each other. Third, a digital assistance system was selected, with the component ofa wide screen and the technology of a dashboard via Power BI, to visualize the net production time, open capacityand level of synchronization in real time. Forth, with the help of the digital assistance system, a dynamic valuestream optimization on the basis of an agile work environment was tested in the LVP.
The ‘Fraunhofer Industrie 4.0 layer model’ structures the major topics related to industry 4.0 into three holisticlayers: enterprise transformation, information & communication and production [10]. For the LVP, the productionlayer is the most important one and was used for analyzing the current state of technologies within the LVP.As shown in Figure 3, the production layer consists of ten segments and five sub-layers. The ten segmentsdescribe core-technology categories, which are directly linked to the production process [10]. The core-technologiesin the LVP are: manufacturing technologies and organization (e.g. self-directed manufacturing), machines (e.g. OPCUA), smart capabilities (e.g. Auto-ID technologies), production planning and control (e.g. paperless production,intelligent production planning and control and manufacturing execution systems), logistic (e.g. track and traceconcepts via digital price labels), work organization (e.g. agile assembly process declaration) and workplace designand assistance (digital assistance systems). The five sub-layers, as shown in Figure 3 at the bottom, define functionalareas, which are relevant and can be integrated for all of the ten core technology categories [11].
Researchers from the Fraunhofer Institution for Casting, Composite and Processing Technology IGCV areworking on the vision of a paper-less production and agile work organization within a production environment inmeans of using CPPS. In practice, it means that each of the five manual assembly stations is armed with near-fieldcommunication technologies (NFC) receivers and digital assembly descriptions on tablets, which are connected viaWi-Fi. In combination with that, all production boxes have an NFC-Tag, for communicating their status ofcompletion, at their back and digital price labels at their front. The manufacturing execution system (MES), calledSoftware4Production, connects all CPPS with each other and the digital dashboard, as shown in Figure 4, visualizesthe most important production related information in real-time. Efficiency and effectiveness improvements in theLVP are reached by using these technologies.
As shown in Figure 4, the digital dashboard visualized the most important production related information of theMES in real-time for production planning and executing. In section A, the MES provides the planned orders fromthe customer, the orders that are currently in production, finished orders and orders with quality issues. Additionally,each of the five intelligence manual assembly stations are illustrated at the dashboard in one row. Therefore, insection B, every single manual assembly station has its own timeline on its x-axis. These timelines move in real-timefrom the right to the left corner of the diagram and visualize the inactive (value=0) and active (value=1) assemblytime on the y-axis. In practice it means, if the assembly worker activates an order via NFC by holding on a box,which includes a NFC-Tag, to the NFC receiver station at the manual assembly station, the order number will betransmitted in the defined row. Additionally, the workload has been activated and therefore the timeline jumpsupwards to a value of one. As an example, the current order number for manual assembly station 3 is FA-450-10010.It is currently activated by a value of one and did not finish. As a result of the real-time measurement, the duration ofeach of the current orders with a value of one and the waiting time with a value of zero can be visualized by thedashboard and analysed by the participants. In practice it means, that the timeline of the manual assembly station 1 islonger than the timeline of manual working station 2. Therefore, the manual assembly station 1 is the bottleneck andcan be optimized by an agile working organization. The same applies for manual working station 4. In section C, thebar diagram summarizes the active (green) and inactive (black) times for each of the manual assembly stations. Incomparison with the other manual assembly stations, the manual assembly station 1 has the highest productivity byup to 96 percent.Within the digital dashboard in the LVP, researchers and participants can experience and evaluate the newproduction control and agile work organizations, which is described above, in an assembly environment for moreefficiency and effectiveness by using CPPS technologies, digital assistance systems and the power of real-timeprocess transparency. In practice, it means that the inactive and active times of each of the assembly workers arevisualized via the digital dashboard and can be analyzed in real-time by the supervisor and each of the participants.Key performance indicators in the LVP and for the participants are the net production time (value=1), the time onhand (value 0), level of synchronization (duration of value=1), quality securing and the amount of outcome.First observations in the LVP show that the participants include the digital assistance system and the real-timesupport information into the overall assembly processes. That means, that the participants analyzed their netproduction time and compared these in real-time with the other net production time of the other working stations.Therefore, the bottleneck assembly stations were identified, for this case manual assembly station one and four, inreal-time and in any constellation. After that, the assembly workers of the bottleneck stations were supported byother workers for reducing their net production time or shifted assembly processes to their own assembly stations.To sum it up, the digital dashboard allows a real-time net-production optimization and synchronization in theassembly by an agile work organization. Advantages and challenges of a real-time transparency production arediscussed in a moderated workshop with the digital experts from the Fraunhofer IGCV. The scientists found out thatdigital assistance systems can increase the amount of outcome up to 15 percent (two more remote-controlled carswithin an overall production time of 25 minutes) and can create an agile work organization. Challenges for theparticipants by using digital assistance systems are the personal data traceability and the daily competition with eachother which could increase the stress level.The learning factory of cyber-physical production systems can close the gap of digital competency for teachinglatest technologies, such as the selection and usage of digital assistance systems. Digital assistance systems consistof components using technologies and enabling capabilities. A process model for selecting and using digitalassistance systems was developed and executed for visualizing the value stream of the manufacturing process ofremote-controlled cars by introducing a wide screen and a digital dashboard. The digital dashboard providesinformation concerning the orders and visualizes the net production time, open capacity and level of synchronizationin real time. First observations in the LVP show that participants are able to analyze their current value stream,detect the bottleneck assembly station and optimize their value stream by shifting participants to assembly stationswith a higher net-production time or shifting assembly tasks to other assembly stations with a lower net-productiontime independently. Therefore, with the help of digital assistance systems, the participants can increase the overalloutcome of products up to 15 percent.